BERLIN —  The Turkish border police detained eight Moroccans in Istanbul this week after becoming suspicious that they were Islamic radicals who planned to infiltrate Europe by joining the migrant stream.The hotel where the men said they had booked rooms for a vacation denied having a reservation, and the men were carrying charts and papers seeming to show that they did not plan to stay in Turkey, but would instead follow the now well-worn migrant path west and north.Turkey says it has detained about 1,000 suspected Islamic State extremists this year, but the eight men from Casablanca, reported Wednesday by the semiofficial news agency Anadolu, were the first known to be flagged for trying to embed as refugees. The Turkish authorities said some of the men were deported and some remained in custody.The episode highlights Turkey’s role as the gateway for refugees marching to Europe, and it added new urgency to a discussion that has been continuing for weeks, as European leaders seek Turkey’s cooperation in stemming the migrants’ flow. Those talks, though, have stalled amid mutual distrust, as well as Turkey’s insistence on using the crisis to obtain something it has long wanted: visa-free travel for its citizens to Europe.Throughout the four years of Syria’s civil war, Turkey, a member of NATO, has been accused by the West of not policing its southern border with Syria, allowing jihadists and weapons to easily enter Syria. It was only over the last year that Turkey awoke to the dangers of the Islamic State and became willing to crack down more forcefully at the Syrian border.Now, in the aftermath of the Paris attacks and the revelation that the French police had found a Syrian passport at one attack site that was used by a man who had passed from Turkey to Greece in October, Turkey’s other border — the maritime one that connects it to Greece — is of growing concern.Turkey’s position between the European and Arab worlds has long cast it as crucial to solutions in both regions.For the European Union, it is not only a fundamental element of any effort to slow the migrant flow and exert better control over who is entering its outer borders. It is also a key to gathering intelligence and tracking militants from Syria who are determined to bring jihad to European soil.“It became obvious after this summer that the E.U. needed Turkish collaboration in order to have a reasonable chance of maintaining its own cohesion,” said Sinan Ulgen, a former Turkish diplomat and analyst at Carnegie Europe in Brussels.Such a deal is particularly important to Germany, which expects to receive some 800,000 asylum applications this year. Chancellor Angela Merkel has remained steadfast about welcoming refugees fleeing the Syria and Iraq wars, but she is under pressure to slow the flow and ensure more extensive background checks on those crossing its borders.For weeks, she and other European leaders have been courting President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey, but the talks have dragged on.In return for its cooperation, Turkey wants help — 3 billion euros over the next two years — to care for the 2.2 million refugees it now harbors, most of them Syrian. It seeks visa-free travel for Turks and a revitalization of talks that have stalled for a decade over Turkish membership in the European Union. And it would like a full summit meeting in Brussels to seal this deal with the European Union.Europeans already suspicious of admitting Turkey, a large country with a mostly Muslim population, are wary. They point to Turkey’s failure to secure its porous border with Syria when the civil war erupted in 2011, increasing the area’s instability in an attempt to help unseat its enemy, President Bashar al-Assad.The border has remained porous, even after 2014, when Turkey reasserted more control. Europe said that has allowed thousands of young Europeans to freely cross its border to join and train with Islamic State militants in Syria — including some of the terrorists linked to the Paris attacks.Turkey accuses Europe of neglecting it, until it was desperate to strengthen ties to help control the migrant flow.This week, each side has pointed a finger at the other in accusations of severe lapses in security.A senior counterterrorism official in Belgium — itself accused of weak policing of Islamic terrorists — accused the Turkish authorities of ignoring requests for information. The official, who requested anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly about the subject, said Turkey frequently obfuscated and was generally uncooperative in sharing security data, and suggested that this may have played a role in suspects’ slipping through.The Turkish authorities made their own claim on noncooperation, saying they had warned their French counterparts twice in the past year about one of the attackers, Ismaël Omar Mostefaï, a 29-year-old French citizen who was known to the authorities as someone with radical Islamist beliefs, a senior Turkish official said Monday.The Turkish official, speaking on condition of anonymity in line with government protocol, said Ankara had never heard back from France and only received an “information request” about Mr. Mostefaï after the Paris attacks.The officials said that on Oct. 10, 2014, Turkey received an information request from France about four terrorism suspects. During its investigation, the Turkish authorities said they identified a fifth person, Mr. Mostefaï, and notified French counterparts twice, in December 2014 and June 2015.European intelligence officials believe that Mr. Mostefaï traveled to Turkey in 2012 and probably then slipped into Syria. The Turkish official disputed that account, saying that Mr. Mostefaï entered Turkey in 2013 and that there was no record of him leaving the country.The Turkish official said the case of Mr. Mostefaï reflected the importance of sharing intelligence in fighting terrorism.The mutual suspicion has made it difficult for the European Union and Turkey to seal a deal on hardening Turkey’s borders.Turkey, sensing that it holds the upper hand with Europe, has dallied.But the Paris attacks may have shifted the dynamics. Now, Mr. Ulgen said, the Turks “should be in a hurry because, after Paris, the E.U.’s ability to deliver more is becoming severely constrained.”France and Europe are now preoccupied with fighting the Islamic State, a cause that will take President François Hollande to Washington and Moscow next week. The summit with the European Union sought by Mr. Erdogan to seal a new deal with Europe is likely to take second place.Since the Paris attacks, conservative governments in Poland and Hungary, citing security threats, have raised new objections to taking in Syrian refugees. Populist leaders like Marine Le Pen in France, who has risen steadily in polls, are poised to gain support and could delay or block an unpopular deal with Turkey.As that political and diplomatic struggle plays out, heightened anxiety over security at airports and borders continues to ripple far beyond Europe. In Honduras, five Syrian men carrying stolen Greek passports tried to enter Honduras but were arrested by immigration authorities at Toncontín airport in Tegucigalpa, the Honduran authorities said Wednesday.The authorities indicated that the passports had been altered to replace the original photos with those of the men.BEIJING —  Two Chinese dissidents who had sought sanctuary in Thailand have been sent back to China, despite winning official recognition as refugees, rights groups said Wednesday.The groups denounced the act by the Thai authorities as a betrayal of the men’s right to flee feared political persecution and torture.The decision to deport the men last week showed the Chinese government’s growing power to persuade other countries to deny its citizens refuge, said William Nee, a researcher on China for Amnesty International based in Hong Kong.“This deportation fits a worrying new pattern of China putting pressure on third-party countries to repatriate dissidents and others who have left China for economic and social reasons,” Mr. Nee said. “China now seems more willing than ever to exert its influence internationally to ensure that its crackdown on human rights domestically can go on unimpeded.”The men, Jiang Yefei and Dong Guanping, had been previously detained in China for their activism. Under President Xi Jinping, the government has expanded arrests, detentions and controls to quell potential challenges to Communist Party control.The Thai government has not publicly confirmed that it sent the men back to China. The Associated Press and other news outlets reported the decision on Tuesday. The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said, without confirming the nationality or background of the two men, that it was “deeply concerned.”The men had been accepted by the United Nations agency as refugees and were due to be resettled soon in a third country, said the statement, which was forwarded by Vivian Tan, a press officer in the high commissioner’s Bangkok office.“The deportations appear to have occurred only days before the two were to depart” Thailand, the statement said. “This action by Thailand is clearly a serious disappointment, and underscores the longstanding gap in Thai domestic law concerning ensuring appropriate treatment of persons with international protection needs.”Mr. Jiang went to Thailand in 2008, after he was twice held by the Chinese police for denouncing the government’s response to a huge earthquake that year in his home province, Sichuan, in the southwest, according to Maya Wang, a researcher on China for Human Rights Watch.Mr. Dong, from Zhengzhou in central China, went to Thailand in September, Ms. Wang said. He was jailed from 2001 to 2004 on charges of “inciting subversion of state power” and detained for several months beginning in 2014 for publicly commemorating the people killed in 1989 during the military crackdown on pro-democracy protests across China, she said.In Washington, John Kirby, the State Department spokesman, expressed “grave disappointment” at the deportation of two “registered Chinese refugees.” Mr. Kirby said at a daily press briefing that in China, the two men “could face harsh treatment, arbitrary detention, and the lack of due process.”The Thai police arrested Mr. Jiang and Mr. Dong in late October for not holding valid visas, Amnesty International said in an earlier account of the case. That account said that the men were kept in a detention center in Bangkok, that someone unknown to them or their families had paid their fines for violating the visa rules, and that they were deported a few days later.The Chinese government has taken increasingly forceful steps to prevent citizens from fleeing into Southeast Asia, especially through Myanmar and on to Thailand, where many then try to leave for other, more welcoming countries. China’s campaign first focused on the Uighur minority, a largely Muslim people in western China. Growing numbers of Uighurs have fled their volatile homeland, and in July, Thailand sent about 100 back to China, prompting denunciations from rights advocates and the United Nations refugee agency.Last month, forces in a border town in Myanmar detained and handed back to the Chinese authorities the teenage son of a detained Chinese human rights lawyer, as well as two men who were trying to help the boy flee to Thailand, then to the United States. Some human rights groups have also said that Gui Minghai, a publisher in Hong Kong who disappeared from his vacation home in Thailand, may have been spirited to China.The military junta that seized power in Thailand last year has sought political and economic support from China. Thailand is not a member of the international convention obliging signatory states to respect the rights of people designated refugees by the United Nations.On Tuesday, Chinese government representatives faced intense questioning in Geneva by members of a United Nations panel on torture. That hearing is to continue on Thursday.JERUSALEM — Five people were killed on Thursday in two separate stabbing and shooting attacks carried out by Palestinians in Tel Aviv and the West Bank, according to the Israeli authorities, in a renewal of deadly violence after a few days of relative calm.The fatalities included three Israelis, a foreign yeshiva student and a Palestinian passer-by, according to Israeli news reports.In the first attack, a Palestinian resident of the West Bank stabbed Israelis at the entrance of a store that served as an informal synagogue in a Tel Aviv commercial center, killing two Israeli men and injuring a third. Witnesses said that the attacker then tried to force his way into the prayer room but was stopped by worshipers blocking the door.Soon after in Etzion, a West Bank settlement bloc south of Jerusalem, a Palestinian gunman in a car opened fire as he passed vehicles stopped in traffic. The assailant then crashed his car into another vehicle and into a group of pedestrians, according to initial reports. Three people were killed and several others were wounded in the assault.One of the victims of the Tel Aviv attack was identified as Aharon Yesayev, 32. The other victims were not immediately identified.The police said the assailant in the Tel Aviv stabbing was a father of five from the village of Dura, in the southern West Bank. The Israeli news media said that he had a permit to work in Israel and was employed at a restaurant near the scene of the attack.Shimon Vaknin, who was praying in the synagogue at the time, told Israeli television that a victim fell inside the room, covered in blood. He said that 15 worshipers blocked the door as the attacker tried to get inside, shouting in Arabic.The attacks came hours after Israel and the Palestinian Authority signed a long-awaited agreement granting Palestinian cellphone carriers 3G high-speed services in the West Bank. The move, intended to boost economic development, had indicated a possible effort, or desire, to return to calm after weeks of violence.At least 16 Israelis have been killed in stabbing, vehicular and shooting attacks by Palestinians since the beginning of October and an Eritrean man was killed by a mob after he was mistaken for an assailant. About 90 Palestinians have been killed over the same period, some of them while attacking, or attempting to attack Israelis, and others in clashes with Israeli security forces.In the absence of peace talks, Israel has been speaking of economic inducements as a way of persuading the Palestinians to restore calm. In a briefing with international reporters this month one Israeli minister, Yuval Steinitz, said, “We always agreed to confidence building measures with the Palestinians and to help with their economy.” But he added, “Even confidence building measures should be built on some kind of reciprocity” and said that Israel expected the Palestinians to act to end any incitement to violence in their news media.Despite the plethora of smartphones in West Bank cities and a burgeoning high-tech industry, Palestinian carriers have so far had to make do with 2G data bandwidth, which was introduced to the area in 1998.Under the interim peace accords of the mid-1990s, Israel controls the allocation of radio frequencies in the West Bank, where the Palestinian Authority exercises limited self-rule. For the Palestinians, the lack of 3G has been a sore point and a symbolic expression of how they say the Israeli occupation has held them back.In March 2013, on the eve of a visit to the West Bank city of Ramallah by President Obama, dozens of posters told the president not to bother bringing his smartphone.Thursday’s agreement was signed by Maj. Gen. Yoav Mordechai, the coordinator of government activities in the territories, the Israeli agency that liaises with the Palestinians on civil affairs, and the Palestinian minister of civil affairs, Hussein al-Sheikh.Israeli officials said that 3G services would probably be available to Palestinian carriers within the next few weeks, and that they might become available in Gaza, the Palestinian coastal territory controlled by Hamas, the Islamic militant group, at some unspecified time in the future.The officials added that Israel was also examining the possibility of introducing 4G bandwidth in the West Bank. Israeli mobile carriers already have access to 4G, including for customers in Jewish settlements in the West Bank.Two Palestinian cellular companies, Jawwal and Wataniya, operate in the West Bank.Durgham Maraee, the chief executive of Wataniya Mobile, welcomed the news and said that the company had had held a license to operate 3G services since its inception in 2006. “However we were not able to offer these services,” he said, “due to the fact that the frequencies were not assigned by the Israeli side until now.”Ammar Akel, the chief executive of Palestine Telecommunications Group, of which Jawwal is a subsidiary, said, “We have been asking for this for more than five years.” He added that the Palestinians were “deprived of using modern technology” while “for the past year the whole world is using 4G.”Israel estimates that the introduction of 3G will increase investment in the West Bank by $120 million.The deadly terrorist attacks in Paris last week have reignited a debate in much of the world on the balance between civil liberties and national security.We selected seven readers who left comments related to this subject on Times articles and who represent a range of viewpoints and backgrounds. The following segments are based on those comments and follow-up interviews. They have been condensed and edited.Please add your own views by leaving a comment. Tell us how you wrestle with this debate, and how, if at all, the attacks in Paris changed your views. Please include where you live and information on your background or life experiences that may have influenced your opinion.Rajeev Achari, 53 — A physician who was raised in Calcutta and lives in Phoenix. He was working as an emergency room doctor in Brooklyn on Sept. 11, 2001. He now identifies as an atheist.The greatest terrorist threat to European and American cities comes from radicalized Muslim citizens. The Islamic State needs to be defeated in time, but the major effort needs to be in intelligence gathering. The French and Belgian intelligence organizations seem to have been caught with their pants down. A much more robust monitoring of mosques, Muslim community centers and donor networks is needed. If this requires suspension of civil liberties, that bitter pill needs to be swallowed.I have formed my views on religion and especially on religious fundamentalists a lot by what happened on 9/11. Now that this happened in Paris, the feeling of a sense of shock is repeated. This kind of brings back those memories. You feel anew the feelings of loss, of sadness.Roger Schwarz, 65 — A criminal lawyer in New York City. His grandmother was killed at Auschwitz during World War II, and the rest of his family had to leave Germany and emigrate to the United States.As a lawyer, I suggest that amending or abrogating a constitution in the name of fighting terrorism is one of the greatest threats to a free society — almost as great as terrorism itself. When we permit greater government intrusion into our privacy, broader searches and fewer procedural safeguards, we travel on a short road to tyranny.Elected representatives lack the courage and fortitude to live up to their oaths to preserve and protect the constitution and offer only shortsighted, get-tough rhetoric to fan the flames of fear. This is the greatest toll that the terrorists exact on all of us.We know from past history, like in Germany in the 1930s and 1940s, what happens when you suspend the constitution — the tremendous threat that poses to the entire country in the longer term.I think the framers drafted the Constitution with great wisdom, and I think there is always a risk at times like this when people are fearful. It is exactly when we have to be most vigilant about protecting and defending the Constitution.“Lilou” — An American from Santa Monica, Calif., who comments under that name. She lives in Paris, where she teaches English. She lives about five miles from the Bataclan concert hall, where 89 people were killed. She said that she was in California on Sept. 11, and she didn’t feel the same sadness and anger as she did after the attacks in Paris. My beliefs have moved toward the right since Friday. I think having something in your own backyard makes a difference.I do believe the Islamic State, or Daesh, has been an insidious enemy all along, and have written that they should be stopped. But I never, until now, advocated the very unpolitically correct view of military retaliation (versus negotiation).I was very satisfied when France sent their jets. The vengeance felt very good to me. The idea of killing innocent civilians has never appealed to me. It is very bizarre for me to suddenly, after the events in Paris Friday night, be happy that someone went and bombed Syria. I know that civilians died, so within my happiness is some guilt. But I am not unhappy that we took a measure against Syria and actually Daesh.While I preferred the Middle Eastern immigrant surge be limited to just those fleeing for their lives, based on cost and quality-of-life reasons, now there are such numbers of immigrants flowing through to Germany, that there is not enough border patrol staff to process their asylum applications.After a Syrian passport was found with one of the suicide bombers at the Stade de France, it made me change my mind about the refugees. I have Muslim friends and clients who are not extremist, and I did not take seriously that the refugees could harbor jihadists. I was wrong.As to deportation or house arrest of suspected terrorists, I have developed another very politically incorrect point of view, that is, selectively monitoring suspected terrorists — not everyone. Each country has a list of suspects, which I now believe should be acted on.Ghulam Faruki, 81 — A retired psychiatrist from Ahmedabad, India, who lives in Queensbury, N.Y. He emigrated to the United States in 1964 for its better working conditions, employment opportunities and lack of discrimination against Muslims. “In 1964 there was no anti-Muslim discrimination in the United States,” he said. “9/11 did change a lot of things.”Let us not blame European Muslims for what are essentially failures of French intelligence.I do not mean to criticize or blame French intelligence. It is just a fact that the intelligence failed.When this incident occurred, the Muslim community has to go through a lot related to how are we are looked upon. People are criticizing us, people are blaming us. The Muslim community, both in the United States and in Europe, has to go through a period of stress because these things happen — which is not their fault at all.Valerie Natale, 50 — A biomedical scientist who lives in Santa Clara, Calif., and has a degree in history.Better, focused intelligence is what we need, not wholesale spying on everyone from Joe the Plumber to Angela Merkel. We need to focus our attention on the actual enemies, not the imagined ones like ordinary Americans, allies, and even Saddam Hussein. The lies, the overly broad wiretapping, and the wars in the wrong places have all helped get us where we are.What we need to do now is to assess our mistakes honestly so as to avoid making them again and again, so as to find a way out of this mess. Bomb a city, and you create a recruiting drive. Target the leaders, and you do everyone a favor.I try to react using logic and rational thought rather than emotions. I understand it — you get hurt and you want to lash out. It is O.K. to feel that way, but I don’t think it is a good idea to then go act on those feelings.“Vieillemontagne,” 50 — A Frenchman living in Britain who comments under that handle. He criticized the French president, François Hollande, for his handling of the terrorism threat. The hard questions for François Hollande are going to be: Why didn’t he take some of these initiatives at the beginning of the year, after the terrorist attack on the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo? Why didn’t he take them when it became clear, a few months ago, as he now says, that some big terrorist attacks were being prepared?We have to continue to live, but to do this, we have to be convinced that governments have their act together and that there are no inefficiencies.“GMR,” 62 — A paralegal living in Atlanta who comments under those initials.Rather than taking away freedoms from the overwhelmingly compliant masses of citizens, why don’t we focus on the noncompliant minority, for example those who travel to Syria for radicalization. And in an emergency state, which France is declared to be in, we should revoke their French citizenship when they leave for one of those countries without prior approval from the government.I don’t think it is unreasonable to ask citizens who seek to travel to war-torn countries for personal reasons to justify such reasons in advance. If one doesn’t have evil intentions, this should not be a problem.I believe the foremost job of a national government is to protect its citizens. The good of the many must outweigh the personal freedom of the few to advance their religious or other personal agenda when those few are seeking to do harm to fellow citizens.A few freedoms of expression or personal freedoms might have to be suspended in an interim period when there are grave things going on. It is for the common good in an extreme situation.Please join this debate by sharing your views in the comments. (iPhone and iPad app users can leave comments here.) PARIS — Abdelhamid Abaaoud, the Islamic State militant suspected of orchestrating the Paris terrorist attacks, died in a police raid in the northern Paris suburb of St.-Denis early Wednesday, the French authorities announced on Thursday.The confirmation of Mr. Abaaoud’s death followed fingerprint analysis, the Paris prosecutor, François Molins, said in a statement. Mr. Abaaoud’s body was heavily riddled with wounds from gunfire and a grenade detonated during the raid. “We do not know at this stage whether Abaaoud blew himself up or not,” Mr. Molins’s office said.At least one other person died in the raid: a woman who opened fire on police and then detonated a suicide vest, whom two French intelligence officials have identified as Hasna Aitboulahcen, 26, a cousin of Mr. Abaaoud.Mr. Abaaoud’s death ended one chapter of the intense criminal investigation that began on Friday night, after three teams of terrorists, in a series of closely coordinated attacks, killed 129 people. But a manhunt continued in Belgium for Salah Abdeslam, 26, a French citizen who is thought to have fled to Brussels after taking part in the attacks.The Belgian authorities on Thursday arrested nine people — seven of them as part of an investigation into Bilal Hadfi, 20, who detonated his explosive vest outside the Stade de France on Friday — in a series of raids. Homes were searched in the neighborhoods of Laeken, Uccle, Jette and Molenbeek. Molenbeek was the base of Mr. Abdeslam; his brother Ibrahim, who was one of the seven attackers who died; and Mr. Abaaoud.French intelligence officials have concluded that Mr. Abaaoud was involved in at least four of six terrorist plots in France that have been foiled since the spring, Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve announced at a news conference.Mr. Abaaoud, a Belgian citizen who was 27 or 28, went to Syria last year to fight with the Islamic State, but it was not until Monday that French authorities learned — through a foreign intelligence service — that he had returned to Europe, via Greece, Mr. Cazeneuve said.Mr. Cazeneuve said that investigators were looking into Mr. Abaaoud’s ties to three men: one who was arrested in France after returning from Turkey in June; a “jihadist” who was arrested in Istanbul in July before boarding a Prague-bound flight with a fake Swedish passport; and a would-be jihadist who was arrested in August and told French officials that he had been “trained and assigned by Abaaoud to perpetrate a violent act in France or in another European country.”Mr. Abaaoud had already been linked to a foiled terrorist plot in January in Verviers, eastern Belgium, in which two of his associates died; an April plot to attack a church in the southern Paris suburb of Villejuif; and an August attack aboard a high-speed train heading to Paris, in which a heavily armed man opened fire before being overpowered by other passengers.Mr. Cazeneuve said “it is urgent for Europe to come together” to better share intelligence and prevent further attacks. He said that justice ministers from European Union member states would gather in Brussels on Friday for an emergency meeting on the matter.“We now know that Abaaoud, the brain behind these attacks — one of the brains, because we must be particularly cautious, and we know what the threats are — was among the dead,” Prime Minister Manuel Valls told the National Assembly, the lower house of the French Parliament.Mr. Valls praised the “exceptional work” of the French police and intelligence services, prompting applause from lawmakers who were gathered to discuss a government-backed bill to overhaul France’s state of emergency law.But many questions remained unanswered: how Mr. Abaaoud had planned and organized the attacks; whether the Islamic State was planning additional assaults outside its stronghold in Syria and Iraq; and the identities of at least two other attackers.Mr. Abaaoud was born in Morocco and grew up in modest but by no means impoverished circumstances in Molenbeek, the gritty Brussels district that has emerged as a center of jihadist activity. His father, Omar, owned a clothing store, and the family lived nearby in a spacious if shabby corner home on the Rue de l’Avenir — Future Street — near the local police station.Despite his subsequent protests over the mistreatment of Muslims in Europe, he enjoyed privileges available to few immigrants, including admission to an exclusive Catholic school, the Collège St.-Pierre d’Uccle, in an upscale residential district of Brussels.He was given a place as a first-year student in the secondary school but stayed only a year. A school official said he had apparently flunked out. Others say he was dismissed for poor behavior.He then drifted into a group in Molenbeek who engaged in various petty crimes. Among his friends were Ibrahim and Salah Abdeslam, two brothers who lived just a few blocks from Mr. Abaaoud in Molenbeek. Ibrahim Abdeslam died in the attacks on Friday night, while Salah is the target of an international manhunt.It is not clear when and how Mr. Abaaoud became radicalized, but in 2010 he spent time in prison, a notorious breeding ground of Islamic militancy in Europe. To the dismay of his family, which had not seen him show any religious zeal, Mr. Abaaoud suddenly moved to Syria in the beginning of 2014, according to experts on jihadist activity who track Belgian militants.Soon after his arrival in Syria, where he stayed for a time in a grand villa in Aleppo used to house French-speaking jihadists, he explained his choice in a video: “All my life I have seen the blood of Muslims flow. I pray that God breaks the backs of those who oppose him” and “that he exterminates them,” he said.This year, the French magazine Paris Match found a film that showed Mr. Abaaoud grinning and making jokes as he dragged corpses behind a pickup truck to a mass grave, a showing that had already brought him to the attention of the counterterrorism authorities. He also persuaded his younger brother, Younes, who was still in Molenbeek and only 13, to join him in Syria in 2014. Younes left Belgium for Syria on his own, without being stopped by the authorities.Abdelhamid Abaaoud returned from Syria some time last year — via Greece, it now appears. In July, he was sentenced in absentia to 20 years in prison in connection with the Verviers plot, which was aimed at killing security officers.On Thursday, a woman answered the buzzer at the flat where Yasmina, Mr. Abaaoud’s sister, lives. She shouted: “Stop coming here, you’re terrorizing the neighborhood, I’m going to call the police!”The raids in Belgium largely focused on the relatives and friends of Mr. Hadfi. They had been scheduled before the Paris attacks, a spokesman for the federal prosecutor in Brussels said, but gained urgency afterward.Mr. Hadfi, who is a French citizen, lived in the Neder-over-Heembeek district of Brussels with his mother and three other siblings.The newspaper La Libre quote his mother, Fatima, describing Mr. Hadfi as a “pressure cooker” and saying: “I felt that he was going to explode one day or the next.”Before he left for Syria, Mr. Hadfi told his mother that he was traveling to Morocco to visit his father’s grave. The day before he left, “he wasn’t in his normal state,” the mother told the newspaper. “When he came over to the house his eyes were red,” she said. “He took me in his arms. He knew that it was a departure with no return.”Four days after he left, Fatima said, her daughter and two other sons came with the news that Mr. Hadfi had gone to Syria. Previously, he had smoked cigarettes and marijuana, but he gave up those habits as he became steadily more religious and politicized, his mother said.A senior Belgian counterterrorism official, who requested anonymity because he is not authorized to discuss ongoing investigations, adding that Mr. Hadfi had been on a list of foreign fighters who had gone to Syria.Both France and Belgium remained on high alert. Mr. Valls, the French prime minister, said an attack using “chemical or biological weapons” could not be ruled out, and his Belgian counterpart, Charles Michel, asked Parliament to approve a variety of strict new security measures.Separately, the White House said President Obama would not abandon plans to attend climate change talks in Paris at the end of the month despite the security concerns.Mr. Obama called Mr. Hollande from Manila on Thursday evening to discuss the latest developments the investigation and again convey his condolences. “Both leaders reiterated their unwavering commitment to degrade and destroy ISIL,” the White House said in a statement, using an acronym for the Islamic State.